EDU-2415: Improve CLI Help content (#561)
temporalio/cli: temporalcli/commandsmd/commands.md

# Temporal CLI Commands

Commands for the Temporal CLI

<!--

This document is automatically parsed.
Follow these rules.

IN-HOUSE STYLE

* Wording and grammar.
  * Run a spell check.
  * Be clear and concise.
  * Don't reword the command in the short description. Use distinct supplementary language.
    * Yes: temporal workflow delete: Remove Workflow Execution
    * No: temporal workflow delete: Delete Workflow
  * Re-use and adapt existing wording and phrases wherever possible.
  * Word command short descriptions as if they began "This command will..."
    Use sentence casing for the short description.
  * ID is fully capitalized in text ("the Workflow ID") and Id in [metasyntax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metasyntactic_variable) (YourWorkflowId).
* Avoid parentheticals unless absolutely necessary.

* Wrapping:

>   * Assume a user-visible line length of 80 characters max. `fmt -w 78` can help.

Reviewer: I don't think this is reasonable nor do I think this document needs to be formatted as if it's user-visible. The result of the markdown may be user-visible but not this document. I think the 120 char max that was there is good enough. Why change? I don't think this document (that is parsed for code generation) needs to be confused with documentation repo markdown.

Reviewer 2: I have made a hard decision on the 80-column rule, because it is visible to users in the outputted documentation, and most users' terminals default to 80 columns.

Reviewer: Right, I think that's a reasonable rendering rule but not usually a writing one. Having said that, this will change when we go to YAML (where there the rendering does match the writing), so no need to change anything now.

Author: Thank you for checking in on this @cretz. Glad to see that the 80-column rule is preserved for base UX.

    * Long descriptions must be pre-wrapped.
  * When declaring Options follow the wrapping style used elsewhere in this file.
    Splitting the items into multiple lines improves maintainability with clearer diffs.

* Ordering:
  * Commands: Use alphabetical order for commands.

>   * Options: Most commonly used options first.

Reviewer: Can you confirm that the help outputs it that way? Should the docs match the help?

Author: Where time allowed, I did as many checks as I could. Sadly time often has not allowed and I haven't had personnel that a job of this complexity might have benefited from. Did the best I could and am happy to have other clear eyes on this.

So: Cannot confirm universally. Did preserve command order.

I have a doc I created of general feedback as I went through this process that may or may not have value. Josh has the link.

Reviewer: To clarify what I mean here, is I think option documentation in docs should match what is shown when you run `--help`. But I think it's alphabetical order there. But I think this will be moot when yaml comes about.

Author: Oh I see what you're saying. 

Confirmed alpha behavior.

Source:

```
#### Options

* `--frontend-address` (string) -
  Remote endpoint.
  Required.
* `--enable-connection` (bool) -
  Set the connection to "enabled".
```

Output:

```
Usage:
  temporal operator cluster upsert [flags]

Flags:
      --enable-connection         enable cross cluster connection.
      --frontend-address string   IP address to bind the frontend service to.
  -h, --help                      help for upsert

```

Happy to go with whatever fits the right flow and I do have the time tomorrow to change this. If @josh-berry is onboard, I can:

* Remove recs (they're going to go away anyway w/ yaml)
* State "use alphabetical order for all options and commands"
* State "to improve maintainability, put more commonly used options first even though they'll be alphabetized in the output"

From UX perspective, more common first _is_ better ergonomics for users discovery but ¯\_(ツ)_/¯, I also think there should be --help and your pick of --long-help, --detailed-help, --full-help for the "make you scroll back" version we currently emit.

Reviewer 2: hm, unfortunate that option order is not preserved. I think at this point I would prefer we not worry too much about non-user-visible things just so we can get this merged for CLI 1.0.

I do agree with @fairlydurable that being able to sort the most common options first (and/or group them into sections) would be nice. (I'm more used to what Python's `argparse` offers here in preserving order and grouping into sections, but I'm getting the sense Cobra isn't quite that capable.) Not sure if that's something we can consider for the future or if that's just not a thing in Cobra. Regardless, doesn't have to be solved now IMO.

Author: Removed section. Easiest solution. Resolving.

* Punctuation:

>   * With the exception of short descriptions and triple-quoted code-fenced samples, end everything with a period.

Reviewer: This is 114 characters and violates the 80 char rule that was imposed just above. Having said that, the rule is a bit too limiting IMO.

Author: You're not wrong but this is in a comment and cannot be seen or rendered outside source. Since it's not user-facing, I don't think it's going to be a problem. Thank you for calling it out for clarification.

    Do _not_ use periods for short descriptions.
    Skipping required periods may cause errors in parsing this file.

>     Caution: Don't forget the period at the end of "Includes options set" lines.

Reviewer: Is there a rule that a new sentence must start on the next line? I don't see it (and not the biggest fan of it, and it only seems to apply to doc repo not code repos, and of course markdown doesn't render it that way). Following 80 char rules, this would look like:

```
  * With the exception of short descriptions and triple-quoted code-fenced
    samples, end everything with a period. Do _not_ use periods for short
    descriptions. Skipping required periods may cause errors in parsing this
    file. Caution: Don't forget the period at the end of "Includes options set"
    lines.
```

or 120 chars:

```
  * With the exception of short descriptions and triple-quoted code-fenced samples, end everything with a period. Do
    _not_ use periods for short descriptions. Skipping required periods may cause errors in parsing this file. Caution:
    Don't forget the period at the end of "Includes options set" lines.
```

Author: Hi Chad, that's a fallout from docs. Since docs need to be maintained with frequent small changes, putting sentences on individual lines allows cleaner diffs and more accurate review.

  * Introduce triple-quoted code-fenced samples with a colons.
    Avoid using 'for example' unless there's no other way to introduce code.

* Code, flags, and keys
  * Demonstrate at least one example invocation of the command in every long description.
  * Include the most commonly used patterns in long descriptions so users don't have to call help at multiple invocation levels.
  * Avoid deprecated period-delineated versions of environment-specific keys.

>     * Yes:

Reviewer: Note that this assumes everyone's terminals use `\` for wrapping which isn't true. But I don't think it's a big problem.

Author: It's a good point and thank  you for the call-out.

I think it's reasonable to assume the Unix standard is familiar to users who don't use backslash will know how to adapt if they're our target audience.

| Query Quick Reference:                                                     |
|                                                                            |
| Composition:                                                               |
| - Values: strings (use single or double quotes), numbers, Booleans         |
| - Comparison: '=', '!=', '>', '>=', '<', '<='                              |
| - Operations: 'IN array', 'BETWEEN value AND VALUE', 'STARTS_WITH string', |
|   'IS NULL', 'IS NOT NULL', 'expr AND expr', 'expr OR expr', '( expr )'    |
| - Array: '( comma-separated-values )'                                      |
|                                                                            |
| Info:                                                                      |
| - Wrap the attribute with backticks if it contains characters not in       |
|  `[a-zA-Z0-9]`.                                                            |
| - `STARTS_WITH` is only available for Keyword search attributes.           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Visit https://docs.temporal.io/visibility to read more about Search Attributes

> and Query creation. See `temporal batch --help` for a quick reference.

Reviewer 2: The quick reference is right above, no? We probably don't need to call it out here.

Author: Yeah, this is one of the two I mentioned yesterday. Fixing.

For example, the Visibility Archive can be set on a separate URI:

```
temporal operator namespace create \
    --retention 5d \
    --visibility-archival-state enabled \
    --visibility-uri YourURI \
    --namespace YourNewNamespaceName
```

Note: URI values for archival states can't be changed once enabled.

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options

* `--active-cluster` (string) -
  Active Cluster (Service) name.
* `--cluster` (string[]) -
  Cluster (Service) names for Namespace creation.
  Can be passed multiple times.
* `--data` (string) -
  Namespace data.
* `--description` (string) -
  Namespace description.
  Comma-separated 'KEY="VALUE"' string pairs.
* `--email` (string) -
  Owner email.
* `--global` (bool) -
  Enable multi-region data replication.
* `--history-archival-state` (string-enum) -
  History archival state.
  Options: disabled, enabled.
  Default: disabled.
* `--history-uri` (string) -
  Archive history to this `URI`.
  Once enabled, can't be changed.
* `--retention` (duration) -
  Time to preserve closed Workflows before deletion.
  Default: 72h.
* `--visibility-archival-state` (string-enum) -
  Visibility archival state.
  Options: disabled, enabled.

>   Default: disabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Default: disabled.
```

or

```
temporal operator namespace describe \
    --namespace YourNamespaceName
```

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options

* `--namespace-id` (string) -
  Namespace ID.

### temporal operator namespace list: List Namespaces

Display a detailed listing for all Namespaces on the Service:

```
temporal operator namespace list
``` 

### temporal operator namespace update: Update a Namespace

Update a Namespace using properties you specify.

```
temporal operator namespace update [options]
``` 

Assign a Namespace's active Cluster (Service):

```
temporal operator namespace update \
    --namespace YourNamespaceName \
    --active-cluster NewActiveCluster
```

Promote a Namespace for multi-region data replication:

```
temporal operator namespace update \
    --namespace YourNamespaceName \
    --promote-global
```

You may update archives that were previously enabled or disabled. Note: URI
values for archival states can't be changed once enabled.

```
temporal operator namespace update \
    --namespace YourNamespaceName \
    --history-archival-state enabled \
    --visibility-archival-state disabled
```

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options
* `--active-cluster` (string) -

>   Active Cluster (S) name.

Reviewer 2: What does the `(S)` here mean?

Author: (Service). Not sure why it got de-erviced.

* `--cluster` (string[]) -
  Cluster names.
* `--data` (string[]) -
  Set a 'KEY="VALUE"' string pair in Namespace data.
  KEY is a string, VALUE is JSON.
  Can be passed multiple times.
* `--description` (string) -
  Namespace description.
* `--email` (string) -
  Owner email.
* `--promote-global` (bool) -
  Enable multi-region data replication.
* `--history-archival-state` (string-enum) -
  History archival state.
  Options: disabled, enabled.
* `--history-uri` (string) -
  Archive history to this `URI`.
  Once enabled, can't be changed.
* `--retention` (duration) -
  Length of time a closed Workflow is preserved before deletion
* `--visibility-archival-state` (string-enum) -

>   Visibility archival state. Options: disabled, enabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Visibility archival state.
  Options: disabled, enabled.
```

# Temporal CLI Commands

Commands for the Temporal CLI

<!-- 

NOTES FOR ERICA

* All URLs are borked due to Info Arch re-org (fixed for now)

> * What changes have been introduced asynchronously. I've seen stuff on Slack.

Author: 👍

* What's the best way to do async conversations other than PRs?

NEW: 
* `--set-as-default` (bool) -
This is super confusing. When you add the new Build ID, it becomes the default
for the set it is inserted into. This command makes the set become the Task
Queue default, and the option defaults to false. Suggestion: --promote-set-as-default-set
or something like that because mind blown.

* Word wrapping to 80 chars
    * What about options? they tend to run long
    * Could the text go to a second line after the spaced-dash?

>     * Could long descriptions be autowrapped outside code examples? -- NEW Q

Author: I'll put it as a note on the rant doc, since that's a good central place as you suggest below.

* `--namespace`, `-n` (string[]) -
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string[]) -
* `--tls-ca-data` (string) -
* `--tls-ca-path` (string) -
* `--tls-cert-data` (string) -
* `--tls-cert-path` (string) -
* `--tls-key-data` (string) -
* `--tls-key-path` (string) -
* `--type` (string) -
* `--type` (string[]) -
* `--type`, `-t` (string-enum) -

* Consistency?
  * `--pause` (bool) -
  * `--unpause` (bool) -
  * `--pause-on-failure` (bool) -
  * `--paused` (bool) - Perhaps: set-paused? set-paused-state?

* `--global` (bool) -
* `--promote-global` (bool) -

* `--enable-connection` (bool) - ? --connected? --set-connected?
* `--fail-existing` (bool) - ? --fail-current?

* `--archived` (bool) - ? --set-archived?

* `--headless` (bool) -

* `--set-as-default` (bool) -
 
* `--tls-disable-host-verification` (bool) -
* `--tls` (bool) -

----

Limiting returns
* `--limit` (int) -
* `--max-sets` (int) - ?? Could be limit also
* `--depth` (int) -

* `--concurrency` (int) -
* `--event-id`, `-e` (int) -
* `--partitions` (int) -
* `--remaining-actions` (int) -

Ports (looks good)
* `--http-port` (int) -
* `--metrics-port` (int) -
* `--port`, `-p` (int) -
* `--ui-port` (int) -

> ----

Reviewer 2: We can start a separate (internal) Notion page with all of the above, I think; some/many of these are breaking changes, so we need to decide if it's worth breaking people's scripts and such for this. But we should definitely capture all of this in one place (along with what you had in your Google doc). LMK if you want me to start a page somewhere.

Author: I'm going to use the CLI feedback Google doc to start with as an info dump first. It's just me collecting thoughts right now and I do want to move that out of the source file and I don't want to spend any time/overhead with formatting and clarifying yet. That can wait until I finish my first pass through (prelude to sanity checks, reviews, etc)

cat `make path` | egrep '\]\(' | grep -v options-set | grep "/concepts" | open -f | sort
Ticket: https://temporalio.atlassian.net/browse/EDU-2596

[Temporal Server](/clusters)
[Task Queue](/workers#task-queue)
[poller](/dev-guide/worker-performance#poller-count)
Temporal [Workers](/workers)
[Workflow](/workflows)
[Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution)
[Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution)
[Workflow ID](/workflows#workflow-id)
[list filter](/visibility#list-filter)
[Event History](/workflows#event-history)
[Query](workflows#query)
[Queries](/workflows#query)
[Event Type](/workflows#event)
[Signal](/workflows#signal)
[Update](/workflows#update)

> * -h, -o, -v are wonky:

Author: I was referring to the fact that the indentation is not normal. If that's okay and intentional, no worries.

  * Use periods consistently in Option elements.
    Period use is mandatory to ensure proper parsing.
    Include periods at the end of Option descriptions and extra attributes.
  * Periods are required at the end of "Include Option set" lines.
  * Avoid deprecated period-delineated versions of environment-specific keys.
    * Yes:
          temporal env set \
              --env prod \
              --key tls-cert-path \
              --value /home/my-user/certs/cluster.cert`
    * No: `temporal env set prod.tls-cert-path /home/my-user/certs/cluster.cert`.
* Wrapping:
  * User-visible line length: 80 characters max.
  * Wrap your Options declarations to match existing examples.
    This improves the maintainability of this file.
  * Hand-wrap your long descriptions as they appear for users.
  * When wrapping code, use a single space and a backslash.
* Examples:
  * Demonstrate at least one example of the command in every long description.
  * For commands with a single command-level option, include it the mandatory
    example.
    Use square brackets to highlight its optional nature if the long
    description would suffer from two very similar command invocations.

>   * Use YourEnvironment, YourNamespace, etc as metasyntactic stand-ins.

Reviewer 2: We should probably be consistent with the `META-VARIABLES` in the flags.

```
temporal activity complete \
    --activity-id YourActivityId \
    --workflow-id YourWorkflowId \
    --result '{"YourResultKey": "YourResultVal"}'
```

#### Options

* `--activity-id` (string) -
  Activity `ID` to complete.
  Required.
* `--result` (string) -
  Result `JSON` for completing the Activity.
  Required.
* `--identity` (string) -
  Identity of the user submitting this request.

Includes options set for [workflow reference](#options-set-for-workflow-reference).

### temporal activity fail: Fail an Activity

Fail an Activity, marking it as having encountered an error. Specify the
Activity and Workflow IDs:

```
temporal activity fail \
    --activity-id YourActivityId \
    --workflow-id YourWorkflowId
```

#### Options

* `--activity-id` (string) -
  `ID` of the Activity to be failed.
  Required.
* `--detail` (string) -
  JSON data with the reason for failing the Activity.
* `--identity` (string) -
  Identity of the user submitting this request.
* `--reason` (string) -
  Reason for failing the Activity.

Includes options set for [workflow reference](#options-set-for-workflow-reference).

### temporal batch: Manage batch jobs

> 

Reviewer 2: Extra newline

Author: Fixed. Thanks

Specify the Workflow Executions to include and the type of batch job to apply.
For example, to cancel all running 'YourWorkflow' Workflows:

```
temporal batch workflow cancel \
  --query 'ExecutionStatus = "Running" AND WorkflowType="YourWorkflow"' \
  --reason "Testing"
```

The `batch` command keyword is optional when you supply a `--query`. This
invocation is identical to the previous one:

```
temporal workflow cancel \
  --query 'ExecutionStatus = "Running" AND WorkflowType="YourWorkflow"' \
  --reason "Testing"
```

#### Options

Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).

### temporal batch describe: Show batch job progress

Show the progress of an ongoing batch job. Pass a valid job ID to display
its information:

```
temporal batch describe --job-id YourJobId
```

#### Options

* `--job-id` (string) -
  Batch job ID.
  Required.

### temporal batch list: List all batch jobs

Return a list of batch jobs on the Service or within a single Namespace.
For example, list the batch jobs for "YourNamespace":
```
temporal batch list --namespace YourNamespace
```

#### Options

* `--limit` (int) -

>   Max output count.

Reviewer 2: This seems a little obtuse—"count" of what?

Author: I've been struggling with this a lot. I'll kick it around and workshop something better. Thanks!

### temporal batch terminate: Terminate a batch job

> Terminate a batch job with the provided job ID. Provide a reason for the
> termination. This explanation is stored with the Service for later reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terminate a batch job with the provided job ID. You must provide a reason for the
termination. This explanation is stored with the Service for later reference.
```

Author: Fixed.

For example:

```
temporal batch terminate \
    --job-id YourJobId \
    --reason YourTerminationReason
```

#### Options

* `--job-id` (string) -
  Job Id to terminate.
  Required.
* `--reason` (string) -
  Reason for terminating the batch job.
  Required.

### temporal env: Manage environments

> Environments manage key-value presets, auto-configuring Temporal CLI options
> for you. Set up distinct environments like "dev" and "prod" for convenience.
> For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environments manage key-value presets, auto-configuring Temporal CLI options
for you. You can set up distinct environments like "dev" and "prod" for convenience.
For example:
```

Author: Adopted.

```
temporal env set \
    --env prod \
    --key address \
    --value production.f45a2.tmprl.cloud:7233
```

Each environment is isolated. Changes to "prod" presets won't affect "dev".

For easiest use, set a `TEMPORAL_ENV` environmental variable in your shell.
The Temporal CLI checks for an `--env` option first, then checks the shell.
If neither is set, most commands use `default` environmental presets if
they are available.

### temporal env delete: Delete an environment or environment property

Remove an environment entirely or remove a key-value pair within an
environment. If you don't specify an environment (with --env or by setting
the TEMPORAL_ENV variable), this updates the default environment. 
For example:

```
temporal env delete --env YourEnvironment
```

or

```

> temporal env delete --env prod  --key tls-key-path

Reviewer 2: extra space before `--key`

Author: Fixed.

```

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options

* `--key`, `-k` (string) -
  Property name.

### temporal env get: Show environment properties

List the properties for a given environment:

```
temporal env get --env YourEnvironment
```

Print a single property:

```
temporal env get --env YourEnvironment --key YourPropertyKey
```

If you don't specify an environment name, with `--env` or by setting

> `TEMPORAL_ENV` as an environmental variable in your shell, this command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`TEMPORAL_ENV` as an environment variable in your shell, this command
```

Author: Fixed globally.

lists properties in the `default` environment.

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options

* `--key`, `-k` (string) -
  Property name.

### temporal env list: List environments

> List the environments you have set up on your local computer. The output 
> enumerates the environments stored in the Temporal environment file on
> your computer ("$HOME/.config/temporalio/temporal.yaml").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
List the environments you have set up on your local computer.
Environments are stored in "$HOME/.config/temporalio/temporal.yaml".
```

(Sorry I'm not getting the wrapping exactly right on these suggestions; hard to do in GitHub's UI)

Author: I'll wrap. No worries.

### temporal env set: Set environment properties

Assign a value to a property key and store it to an environment:

```
temporal env set \
    --env environment \
    --key property \
    --value value
```

If you don't specify an environment name, with `--env` or by setting

> `TEMPORAL_ENV` as an environmental variable in your shell, this command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`TEMPORAL_ENV` as an environment variable in your shell, this command
```

Author: Adopted

sets properties in the `default` environment.

Setting property names lets the CLI automatically set options on your behalf.
Storing these property values in advance reduces the effort required to 
issue CLI commands and helps avoid typos.

<!--
* maximum-args=2
-->

#### Options

* `--key`, `-k` (string) -
  Property name.
  Required.
* `--value`, `-v` (string) -
  Property value.
  Required.

### temporal operator: Manage Temporal deployments

Operator commands manage and fetch information about Namespaces, 
Search Attributes, and Temporal Clusters:

```
temporal operator [command] [subcommand] [options]
```

> For example, to view a cluster-by-cluster overview:

Author: adopted

```
temporal operator cluster describe
```

#### Options

Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).

### temporal operator cluster: Manage a Temporal Cluster

Perform operator actions on Temporal Clusters.

```
temporal operator cluster [subcommand] [options]
```

For example to check Cluster health:

```
temporal operator cluster health
```

> ### temporal operator cluster describe: Describe a Temporal Cluster

Author: Adopting and rewording slightly

> ### temporal operator cluster describe: Describe a Temporal Cluster

Author: p.s. Will take to heart when doing later reviews. Still trudging through finishing the first pass

View information about a Temporal Cluster, including Cluster Name,
persistence store, and visibility store. Add `--detail` for additional
information:

```
temporal operator cluster describe [--detail]
```

#### Options

* `--detail` (bool) -

>   High-detail output.

Author: Again, will take to heart when I do my next stage and revisit earlier items

Failover version, and availability.

```
temporal operator cluster list [--limit max-count]
```

#### Options

* `--limit` (int) -
  Max count to list.

### temporal operator cluster remove: Remove a Temporal Cluster

Remove a registered Temporal Cluster from this system.

```
temporal operator cluster remove --name YourClusterName
```

#### Options

* `--name` (string) -
  Cluster name.
  Required.

### temporal operator cluster system: Show Temporal Cluster info

Show Temporal Server information for Temporal Clusters: Server version, 
scheduling support, and more. This information helps diagnose problems with
the Temporal Server. This command defaults to the local Service. Otherwise, 
use the `--frontend-address` option to specify a Cluster endpoint.

```
temporal operator cluster system \ 
    --frontend-address "your_remote_endpoint:your_remote_port"
``` 

### temporal operator cluster upsert: Add/update a Temporal Cluster

Add, remove, or update a registered ("remote") Temporal Cluster.

```
temporal operator cluster upsert [options]
```

For example:

```
temporal operator cluster upsert \
    --frontend_address "your_remote_endpoint:your_remote_port"

>     --enable_connection false

Author: Oh! Hyphens! Got it.

```

#### Options

* `--frontend-address` (string) -
  Remote endpoint.
  Required.
* `--enable-connection` (bool) -

>   Enabled/disabled connection.

Author: I hate it too. Making it down for rewording and will spend time workshopping

### temporal operator namespace: Namespace operations

Perform operations on Temporal Cluster Namespaces:

```
temporal operator namespace [command] [command options]
```

For example:

```
temporal operator namespace create \
    --namespace YourNewNamespaceName
```

### temporal operator namespace create: Register a new Namespace

Create a new Namespace on the Temporal Server:

```
temporal operator namespace create \
    --namespace YourNewNamespaceName \
    [options]
````

> To create a global Namespace, for cross-region data replication:

Author: changing to multi-region

```
temporal operator namespace create \
    --global \
    --namespace YourNewNamespaceName
```

Configure other settings like retention and Visibility Archival State
as needed. For example, the Visibility Archive can be set on a separate URI:

```
temporal operator namespace create \
    --retention 5d \
    --visibility-archival-state enabled \
    --visibility-uri YourURI \
    --namespace YourNewNamespaceName
```

Note: URI values for archival states can't be changed after being enabled.

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options

* `--active-cluster` (string) -
  Active cluster name.
* `--cluster` (string[]) -
  Cluster names for Namespace creation.
  Can be passed multiple times.
* `--data` (string) -
  Namespace data.
* `--description` (string) -
  Namespace description.
  Comma-separated "KEY=VALUE" string pairs.
* `--email` (string) -
  Owner email.
* `--global` (bool) -

>   Enable/disable cross-region data replication.

Author: I edited them across the file.

### temporal operator namespace list: List Namespaces

A long-form listing for all Namespaces on the Service:

```
temporal operator namespace list
``` 

### temporal operator namespace update: Update Namespace

Update a Namespace using the properties you specify.

```
temporal operator namespace update [options]
``` 

Assign a Namespace's active Cluster:

```
temporal operator namespace update \
    --namespace YourNamespaceName \
    --active-cluster NewActiveCluster
```

Promote a Namespace for data replication:

```
temporal operator namespace update \
    --namespace YourNamespaceName \
    --promote-global
```

You may update archives that were previously enabled or disabled. 
Note: URI values for archival states can't be changed after being enabled:

```
temporal operator namespace update \
    --namespace YourNamespaceName \
    --history-archival-state enabled \
    --visibility-archival-state disabled
```

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options
* `--active-cluster` (string) -
  Active cluster name.
* `--cluster` (string[]) -
  Cluster names.
* `--data` (string[]) -
  Set a "KEY=VALUE" string pair in Namespace data.
  KEY is an unquoted string identifier.

>   Unquoted JSON is recommended for the VALUE.

Author: The source material was really confusing for me. I'm pushing this to the questions/confusion entries in the notes for discussion. There's got to be a consistent way to describe how the data is passed, whether 'key="json"' or whatever. Resolving until we discuss.

  Can be passed multiple times.
* `--description` (string) -
  Namespace description.
* `--email` (string) -
  Owner email.
* `--promote-global` (bool) -

>   Enable/disable cross-region data replication.

Author: adopted

temporal operator search-attribute create \
    --name YourAttributeName \
    --type Keyword
```

Supported types include: Text, Keyword, Int, Double, Bool, Datetime, and
KeywordList.

### temporal operator search-attribute create: Add custom Search Attributes

Add one or more custom Search Attributes:

```
temporal operator search-attribute create \
    --name YourAttributeName \
    --type Keyword
```

#### Options

* `--name` (string[]) -
  Search Attribute name. Required
* `--type` (string[]) -
  Search Attribute type.
  Options: Text, Keyword, Int, Double, Bool, Datetime, KeywordList.
  Required.

### temporal operator search-attribute list: List Search Attributes

Display a list of active Search Attributes that can be assigned or used with 
Workflow Queries.

```
temporal operator search-attribute list
```

### temporal operator search-attribute remove: Remove custom Search Attributes

Remove custom Search Attributes from the options that can be assigned or
used with Workflow Queries.

```
temporal operator search-attribute remove \
    --name YourAttributeName
```

Remove without confirmation:

```
temporal operator search-attribute remove \
    --name YourAttributeName \

>     --yes false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --yes
```

Author: Adopted. Let's talk about renaming `yes`. Like `--no-confirmation` or `--no-confirm` or `--confirmed` or something.

```

#### Options

* `--name` (string[]) -
  Search Attribute name.
  Required.
* `--yes`, `-y` (bool) -

>   Override confirmation request before removal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Don't prompt to confirm removal.
```

Author: Adopted

Author: And did a global audit to bring everything into line.

### temporal schedule: Perform operations on Schedules

Create, use, and update Schedules that allow Workflow Executions to
be created at specified times:

```
temporal schedule [commands] [options]
```

For example:

```
temporal schedule describe \
    --schedule-id "YourScheduleId"
```

#### Options

Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).

### temporal schedule backfill: Backfill past actions

Batch-execute actions that would have run during a specified time interval.
Use this command to fill in Workflow Runs from when a Schedule was paused,
from before a Schedule was created, from the future, or to re-process an
interval that was previously executed.

Backfills require a Schedule ID and the time period covered by the request. 

> It's best to use the `BufferAll` or `AllowAll` policies.

Reviewer 2: We should briefly explain why. When reading documentation, I'm generally skeptical of "do this" / "don't do this" statement that aren't backed up by some kind of rationale, no matter how brief.

Author: 1. Agreed.
2. I don't have a rationale. Researched, tried to find some, but the closest I've gotten is via Kapa AI, whose answer is pretty wordy. I need some specific wording and example help.

Here's my best start:
```
It's best to use the `BufferAll` or `AllowAll` policies as they are the 
most suitable for backfilling without conflict and without skipping and
therefore losing Workflow Executions.
```

For example:

```
  temporal schedule backfill \
    --schedule-id "YourScheduleId" \
    --start-time "2022-05-01T00:00:00Z" \
    --end-time "2022-05-31T23:59:59Z" \
    --overlap-policy BufferAll
```

#### Options set for overlap policy:

* `--overlap-policy` (string-enum) -
  Overlap policy.
  Options: Skip, BufferOne, BufferAll, CancelOther, TerminateOther, AllowAll.

>   Default: Skip.

Reviewer 2: We should probably try to describe each of the policies in the long description above. It's kinda-sorta clear what these do from their names, but having more concrete descriptions for each of them would be good because it helps the reader to decide which applies in their particular situation.

Author: Adding

Author: ```
The policies include:

* AllowAll: Allow unlimited concurrent Workflow Executions. This
  significantly speeds up the backfilling process on systems that
  support concurrency. Make sure running Workflow Executions will not
  interfere with each other.
* BufferAll: Buffer all incoming Workflow Executions while waiting 
  for the running Workflow Execution to complete.
* Skip: If a previous Workflow Execution is still running, discard
  new Workflow Executions.
* BufferOne: Same as 'Skip' but buffer a single Workflow Execution
  to be run after the previous Execution completes. Discard other
  Workflow Executions.
* CancelOther: Cancel the running Workflow Execution and replace it
  with the incoming new Workflow Execution.
* TerminateOther: Terminate the running Workflow Execution and replace it
  with the incoming new Workflow Execution.
```

#### Options set for schedule id:

* `--schedule-id`, `-s` (string) -
  Schedule ID.
  Required.

#### Options

* `--end-time` (timestamp) -
  Backfill end time.
  Required.
* `--start-time` (timestamp) -
  Backfill start time.
  Required.

### temporal schedule create: Create a new Schedule

Create a new Schedule on the Frontend Service. A Schedule will

> automatically start new Workflow Executions at the times you specify.

Author: Adopted. 

Create a new Schedule on the Temporal Service. A Schedule automatically 
starts new Workflow Executions at the times you specify.

For example:

```
  temporal schedule create \
    --schedule-id "YourScheduleId" \

>     --calendar '{"dayOfWeek":"Fri","hour":"3","minute":"30"}' \

Author: * Shorthand [`--interval` ](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#spec) strings.
    A string like 45m (every 45 minutes) or 6h/5h (every 6 hours, at the
    top of the 5th hour). 
* JSON [`--calendar`](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#spec), as in the
  preceding example.
* Unix-style [`--cron`](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#cron-schedules) strings, including classic 5-item cron specs
    and [robfig](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/robfig/cron/v3)) declarations (@daily/@weekly/@every X/etc).

    --workflow-id "YourBaseWorkflowId" \
    --task-queue "YourTaskQueue" \
    --workflow-type "YourWorkflowType"
```

Schedules support any combination of `--calendar`, `--interval`, 
and `--cron`.

#### Options set for schedule configuration:

* `--calendar` (string[]) -
  Calendar specification in JSON.

>   For example: `{"dayOfWeek":"Fri","hour":"17","minute":"5"}`.

Author: Linked (exhaustively) in long description. Do we/should we have it in both places for a command line utility that (ideally) should have progressive disclosure?  Added. It's easy to toss.

* `--catchup-window` (duration) -
  Maximum catch-up time for when the Service is unavailable.
* `--cron` (string[]) -
  Calendar specification in cron string format.
  For example: `"3 11 * * Fri"`.
* `--end-time` (timestamp) -
  Schedule end time
* `--interval` (string[]) -
  Interval duration.
  For example, 90m, or 90m/13m to include phase offset.
* `--jitter` (duration) -

>   Per-action jitter range.

Author: THANK YOU!

* `--notes` (string) -
  Initial notes field value.
* `--paused` (bool) -

>   Initial value for paused state.

Author: Maybe it should be `set-paused`? Added to notes, and updated as suggested. Thank you.

* `--pause-on-failure` (bool) -
  Pause schedule after Workflow failures.
* `--remaining-actions` (int) -
  Total allowed actions. 
  Default is zero (unlimited).
* `--start-time` (timestamp) -
  Schedule start time.
* `--time-zone` (string) -
  Interpret calendar specs with the `TZ` time zone.
  For a list of time zones, see: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones.
* `--schedule-search-attribute` (string[]) -
  Set schedule Search Attributes using "KEY=VALUE" format.
  KEY is an unquoted string identifier.
  VALUE is a JSON string.
  Can be passed multiple times.
* `--schedule-memo` (string[]) -
  Set a schedule memo using "KEY=VALUE" format.
  KEY is an unquoted string identifier.
  VALUE is a JSON string.

>   Can be passed multiple times.

Author: Same as the whole "quoted" issue. So let's figure this out and then I'll apply updates globally.

>   Can be passed multiple times.

Author: I made it easy to find by consistently using
```
  Set a schedule memo using 'KEY="VALUE"' format.
  KEY is a string, VALUE is JSON. <-- fix this
```
wherever  KEY=VALUE was used that mentioned JSON. 

Once settled on how this should read, updating should be a breeze

  It is hidden if a `META-VARIABLE` is used.
* Where possible, use a `META-VARIABLE` (all caps and wrapped in `\``s) to describe/reference content passed to an option.
* Limit `code spans` to meta-variables. 
  To reference other options or specify literal values, use double quotes.
* Avoid parentheticals unless absolutely necessary.

Examples: 

These show correct/incorrect usage text for the optional `--history-uri` flag:

* Preferred: "Archive history at \`URI\`. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid incomplete sentences: "_History archival \`URI\`_. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid wrong verb tenses: "_Archives history at \`URI\`_. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid missing metavariables: "Archive history at _the specified URI_. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid unnecessary parenthetical: `Archive history at \`URI\` _(note: cannot be changed after archival is enabled)_.`

COMMAND ENTRY OVERVIEW

A Command entry uses the following format:

    ### <command>: <short-description>
    
    <long description>

    (optional command implementation configuration)

    #### Options

>     * `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) (data-type) - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)

Author: ```suggestion
    * `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) <data-type> - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)
```

OPTIONS SECTION

* Start the optional Options section with an H4 `#### Options` header line.
* To configure option inclusion, add ` set for <options-set-name>` after `#### Options`.
  For example: `Options set for client:`.
  End every `set for` line with a trailing colon.
* Follow the header declaration with a list of options.
* In the current implementation, you must include at least one option. 
  Although `gen-commands` will complete, the CLI utility will not run.
* To incorporate an existing options set, add a single line below options saying:

  ```
  Includes options set for [<options-set-name>](#options-set-for-<options-set-link-name>).
  ```
    
  For example:
  
  ```
  Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).
  ```
    
  An options set declaration is the equivalent of pasting those options into the bulleted options list.

  Note: Command overlap or similarity does not require option sets.
  Reserve option sets for parallel functionality.
  Copy/paste is fine, otherwise.

OPTION LISTING

* List one option per line, using asterisk-delimited bullets.
* Order the options with most commonly used options first.
* Use this format:

  ```

>   `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) (data-type) - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)

Author: ```suggestion
  `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) <data-type> - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)
```

<!--

This document is automatically parsed.
Follow these rules.

IN-HOUSE STYLE

* Use alphabetical order for commands.
* Commands with subcommands cannot be run on their own.
* Line length: 120 characters max.
* Add punctuation consistently, even at the end of phrases.
* Short descriptions do not end with a period.

> * Every long description demonstrates at an example use of the command.

Author: ```suggestion
* Every long description demonstrates at least one example use of the command.
```

* Avoid parentheticals unless absolutely necessary.

Examples: 

These show correct/incorrect usage text for the optional `--history-uri` flag:

* Preferred: "Archive history at \`URI\`. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid incomplete sentences: "_History archival \`URI\`_. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid wrong verb tenses: "_Archives history at \`URI\`_. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid missing metavariables: "Archive history at _the specified URI_. Cannot be changed after archival is enabled."
* Avoid unnecessary parenthetical: `Archive history at \`URI\` _(note: cannot be changed after archival is enabled)_.`

COMMAND ENTRY OVERVIEW

A Command entry uses the following format:

    ### <command>: <short-description>
    
    <long description>

    (optional command implementation configuration)

    #### Options

    * `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) (data-type) - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)
    * `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) (data-type) - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)
    * `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) (data-type) - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

  Always parenthesize data types.
  For example: `` `--raw` (bool) ``
* A dash follows the data type, with a space on either side. 
* The short description is free-form text and follows the dash.
  Take care not to match trailing attributes. 
  Newline wrapping and/or two-space indention condenses to a single space.
* [Optional] extra attributes include:
  * `Required.` - Marks the option as required.
  * `Default: <default-value>.` - Sets the default value of the option. No default means zero value of the type.
  * `Options: <option>, <option>.` - Sets the possible options for a string enum type.
  * `Env: <env-var>.` - Binds the environment variable to this flag. For example: `Env: TEMPORAL_ADDRESS`.

-->

### temporal: Temporal command-line interface and development server

The Temporal CLI (Command Line Interface) provide a powerful tool to manage, 
monitor, and debug your Temporal applications. It also lets you run a local
Temporal Service directly from your terminal. With this CLI, you can 
start Workflows, pass messages, cancel application steps, and more.

* Start a local development service: 
      `temporal server start-dev` 

> * Help messages: pass --help for any command

Author: ```suggestion
* Help messages: pass --help for any command:
```

### temporal batch: Manage Batch Jobs

A batch job executes a single command affecting multiple Workflow 
Executions in tandem. Available commands:

* Cancel: Cancel the Workflow Executions specified by the List Filter.
* Signal: Signal the Workflow Executions specified by the List Filter.
* Terminate: Terminates the Workflow Executions specified by the List Filter.

You select the Workflow Executions to include and the kind of batch 
job to apply. For example, cancel all the running 'YourWorkflow' Workflows:

```
temporal workflow cancel \
  --query 'ExecutionStatus = "Running" AND WorkflowType="YourWorkflow"' \
  --reason "Testing"
 ```

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/batch

#### Options

Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).

### temporal batch describe: Show Batch Job progress

Show the progress of an ongoing Batch Job. Pass a valid Job ID
to return the job's information:

```
temporal batch describe --job-id=YourJobId
```

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/batch

#### Options

* `--job-id` (string) - The Batch Job Id to describe. Required.

### temporal batch list: List all Batch Jobs

> Return a list of Batch jobs, for the entire Service or a single Namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
Return a list of Batch jobs, for the entire Service or a single Namespace:

```

<!--

This document is automatically parsed.
Follow these rules.

IN-HOUSE STYLE

* Use alphabetical order for commands.
* Commands with subcommands cannot be run on their own.

> * Line length: 120 characters max.

Author: I am 100% behind 80 columns. After I run ./temporal this is what my (extremely and intentionally vanilla) terminal window looks like. 

![snapshot-05-16-24@09-05-20](https://github.com/temporalio/cli/assets/156466156/2f86a197-c972-4fa2-bcc7-480f64e287c5)

* Add punctuation consistently, even at the end of phrases.

> * Short descriptions do not end with a period.

Author: Going with previous comments about serving docs needs

* Every long description demonstrates at least one example use of the command.
* Use imperative-form verbs:
  * Good: `Pause or unpause a Schedule.`
  * Bad: `This command pauses or unpauses a Schedule.`

For options and flags:

> * For optional and required flags, use complete sentences with imperative-form verbs. 

Author: Removing sentence.

    * `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) <data-type> - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)
    * ...

    optional: Includes options set for [<options-set-name>](#options-set-for-<options-set-link-name>)

COMMAND LISTING

* Use H3 `### <command>: <short-description>` headings for each command.
  * One line only. Use the complete command path with parent commands.
  * Use square-bracked delimited arguments to document positional arguments.
    For example `temporal operator namespace delete [namespace]`.
  * Everything up to ':' or '[' is the command. 
    Square-bracketed positional arguments are not part of the command.
  * Everything following the ':' or '[' is used for the short-description, a concise command explanation.
* A command's long description continues until encountering the H4 (`#### Options`) header.
* At the end of the long description, an optional XML comment configures the command implementation.
  Use one asterisk-delimited bullet per line.
  * `* has-init` - invokes `initCommand` method.
  * `* exact-args=<number>` - Require this exact number of args.
  * `* maximum-args=<number>` - Require this maximum number of args.

  

> LONG DESCRIPTION SECTION

Author: It's in the OPTION LISTING since the end of the long description happens _before_ the OPTIONS section

* Your text format is preserved literally, so be careful with line lengths.
  Use manual wrapping as needed.

OPTIONS SECTION

* Start the optional Options section with an H4 `#### Options` header line.

> * To configure option inclusion, add ` set for <options-set-name>` after `#### Options`.

Author: Removed, corrected trailing comma to trailing period and moved the "trailing" line to the correct discussion below.

>   For example: `Options set for client:`.

Author: Removed as discussed in other comment.

  End every `set for` line with a trailing colon.
* Follow the header declaration with a list of options.
* In the current implementation, you must include at least one option. 
  Although `gen-commands` will complete, the CLI utility will not run.
* To incorporate an existing options set, add a single line below options saying:

  ```
  Includes options set for [<options-set-name>](#options-set-for-<options-set-link-name>).
  ```
    
  For example:
  
  ```
  Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).
  ```
    
  An options set declaration is the equivalent of pasting those options into the bulleted options list.

  Note: Command overlap or similarity does not require option sets.

>   Reserve option sets for parallel functionality.

Author: Added exactly as suggested.

  Copy/paste is fine, otherwise.

> OPTION LISTING

Author: Changed as suggested. Thank you.

* List one option per line, using asterisk-delimited bullets.

> * Order the options with most commonly used options first.

Author: Changed as requested.

* Use this format:

  ```
  `--<long-option>`( , `-<short option>`) <data-type> - <short-description>( <extra-attributes>)

>   ```

Author: Added

* Each option listing includes a long option with a double dash and a meaningful name.
* [Optional] A short option uses a single dash and a short string.
  When used, separate the long and short option with a comma and a space.
* Backtick every option and short description. 
  Include the dash or dashes within the ticks.
  For example: `` `--workflow-id`, `-w` ``
* A data type follows option names indicating the required value type for the option.
  The type is `bool`, `duration`, `int`, `string`, `string[]`, `string-enum`, or `timestamp`. (_TODO: more_.)
  Always parenthesize data types.
  For example: `` `--raw` (bool) ``
* A dash follows the data type, with a space on either side. 
* The short description is free-form text and follows the dash.
  Take care not to match trailing attributes. 

>   Newline wrapping and/or two-space indention condenses to a single space.

Author: I came to this with good indentions. Fixed. Thank you for the catch. I am not sure why Apple's spellcheck didn't grab it.

* [Optional] extra attributes include:
  * `Required.` - Marks the option as required.
  * `Default: <default-value>.` - Sets the default value of the option. No default means zero value of the type.
  * `Options: <option>, <option>.` - Sets the possible options for a string enum type.
  * `Env: <env-var>.` - Binds the environment variable to this flag. For example: `Env: TEMPORAL_ADDRESS`.

-->

### temporal: Temporal command-line interface and development server

The Temporal CLI (Command Line Interface) provide a powerful tool to manage, 
monitor, and debug your Temporal applications. It also lets you run a local
Temporal Service directly from your terminal. With this CLI, you can 
start Workflows, pass messages, cancel application steps, and more.

* Start a local development service: 
      `temporal server start-dev` 
* Help messages: pass --help for any command:
      `temporal activity complete --help`

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli

<!--
* has-init
-->

#### Options

> * `--env` (string) - Active environment name. Default: default. Env: TEMPORAL_ENV.

Author: Let's discuss this. I'm not going to resolve this until the merits are weighed, as I believe "Active environment name" (what's being set for key-value) is a better than "Use settings from the `ENV` environment" (imperative-verb rule, which is wordy and describes how the key-value pair is used)

> * `--env` (string) - Active environment name. Default: default. Env: TEMPORAL_ENV.

Reviewer 2: Sure, I am okay deferring to you on editorial things like this. That's why I want your help!

Though note that without mentioning `\`ENV\``, you'll get output that looks like:

```
--env string    ...
```

rather than:

```
--env ENV    ...
```

> * `--env` (string) - Active environment name. Default: default. Env: TEMPORAL_ENV.

Author: Sounds good. Key/Value is inherently noun. Thanks for this.

> * `--env` (string) - Active environment name. Default: default. Env: TEMPORAL_ENV.

Author: Played around with 

```
      --env string                                        Active environment name. (default "default")
      --env ENVIRONMENT_NAME                              Active environment name (ENVIRONMENT_NAME). (default "default")
      --env ENV                              Active environment name (ENV). (default "default")

```

I think the first ('string') is the most understandable as it doesn't make ENV sound like it means anything other than a metasyntactic use

* `--env-file` (string) - Path to environment settings file (defaults to `$HOME/.config/temporalio/temporal.yaml`).
* `--log-level` (string-enum) - Log level. Default is "info" for most commands and "warn" for `server start-dev`.
  Options: debug, info, warn, error, never. Default: info.
* `--log-format` (string) - Log format. Options are "text" and "json". Default is "text".
* `--output`, `-o` (string-enum) - Non-logging data output format. Options: text, json, jsonl,
  none. Default: text.
* `--time-format` (string-enum) - Time format. Options: relative, iso, raw. Default: relative.
* `--color` (string-enum) - Output coloring. Options: always, never, auto. Default: auto.
* `--no-json-shorthand-payloads` (bool) - Raw payload output, even if they are JSON.

### temporal activity: Complete or fail an Activity

Update an Activity to report that it has completed or failed. This process
marks an activity as successfully finished or as having encountered an error
during execution.

> Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/activity

Author: Another discussion point. I'd like to talk it out before making any time-heavy global edits (another reason, I did a proof-of-concept pass first)

> Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/activity

Reviewer 2: Sure thing. Do you want to have another meeting?

> Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/activity

Author: Removed all Read more: refs

#### Options

Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).

### temporal activity complete: Complete an Activity

Complete an Activity, marking it as successfully finished. Specify 
the ID and include a JSON result to use for the returned value.

```
temporal activity complete \
    --activity-id=YourActivityId \
    --workflow-id=YourWorkflowId \
    --result='{"YourResultKey": "YourResultVal"}'
```

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/activity#complete

#### Options

* `--activity-id` (string) - Activity `ID` to complete. Required.

> * `--result` (string) - Result JSON for completing the Activity. Required.

Author: Wasn't sure about this, thanks for clarifying.

* `--identity` (string) - Identity of the user submitting this request

Includes options set for [workflow reference](#options-set-for-workflow-reference).

### temporal activity fail: Fail an Activity

Fail an Activity, marking it as having encountered an error during execution.
Specify the Activity and Workflow Ids.

```
temporal activity fail \
    --activity-id=YourActivityId \
    --workflow-id=YourWorkflowId
```

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/activity#fail

#### Options

* `--activity-id` (string) - `ID` of the Activity to be failed. Required.
* `--detail` (string) - JSON data describing the reason for failing the Activity
* `--identity` (string) - Identity of the user submitting this request

> * `--reason` (string) - Reason for failing the Activity

Author: My textual inconsistency beeper is sounding off wildly. I think it would be better to only use periods for options to separate descriptions and extra attributes. Let's discuss. Not resolving.

Includes options set for [workflow reference](#options-set-for-workflow-reference).

### temporal batch: Manage Batch Jobs

A batch job executes a single command affecting multiple Workflow 
Executions in tandem. Available commands:

* Cancel: Cancel the Workflow Executions specified by the List Filter.
* Signal: Signal the Workflow Executions specified by the List Filter.

> * Terminate: Terminates the Workflow Executions specified by the List Filter.

Author: Oh good to know. Adding to my notes.

You select the Workflow Executions to include and the kind of batch 
job to apply. For example, cancel all the running 'YourWorkflow' Workflows:

```
temporal workflow cancel \
  --query 'ExecutionStatus = "Running" AND WorkflowType="YourWorkflow"' \
  --reason "Testing"
 ```

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/batch

#### Options

Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).

### temporal batch describe: Show Batch Job progress

Show the progress of an ongoing Batch Job. Pass a valid Job ID
to return the job's information:

```

> temporal batch describe --job-id=YourJobId

Author: I believe we should go with space rather than =. Here's why:

- It's the traditional Unix style.
- It's supported more widely and is backwards compatible.
- Consistent with POSIX guidelines for command-line options.

I've added an IN-HOUSE STYLE entry and audited the document.

#### Options

* `--limit` (int) - Show only the first `N` Batch Jobs in the list.

### temporal batch terminate: Terminate a Batch Job

Terminate the Batch job with the provided Job Id. You must provide
a reason motivating the termination, which is stored with the Service
for later reference.

```
temporal batch terminate --job-id=YourJobId --reason=YourTerminationReason
```

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/batch#terminate

#### Options

* `--job-id` (string) - The Batch Job Id to terminate. Required.
* `--reason` (string) - Reason for terminating the Batch Job. Required.

### temporal env: Manage environments
Environments help you create and manage grouped key-value presets for Options.
They provide easy set-up for separate environments, such as "dev" and 
"prod" work.

For example, you might set an endpoint preset for the `--address` option.
You won't have to enter it each time you use the Temporal CLI utility. Env 
presets let you configure distinct setups for Temporal Services and Namespaces.

Environment names compartmentalize each key-value store. Use the environment
name as part of your assignment, as in this example, which configures the 
"prod" environment:

```

> temporal env set prod.namespace production.f45a2  
> temporal env set prod.address production.f45a2.tmprl.cloud:7233  
> temporal env set prod.tls-cert-path /temporal/certs/prod.pem  
> temporal env set prod.tls-key-path /temporal/certs/prod.key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
temporal env set --env prod --key namespace --value production.f45a2  
temporal env set --env prod --key address --value production.f45a2.tmprl.cloud:7233  
temporal env set --env prod --key tls-cert-path --value /temporal/certs/prod.pem  
temporal env set --env prod --key tls-key-path --value /temporal/certs/prod.key
```

Author: Okay, let's discuss this weirdness too. Not against it, just want to make sure that we're on the same page so I add correctly.

Reviewer 2: Sure, so the old `env.key` notation is now deprecated and will eventually be removed (long after 1.0 is released, to give people time to adapt) because it was somewhat confusing. But I'm happy to answer any questions!

Author: It's not widely used. At this point, I don't even know who owns those pages or where a ticket would be filed:

```
docs% rgrep -l mdx "prod\."
./docs/cli/env.mdx
./docs/cli/index.mdx
docs% rgrep -l md "prod\."
./node_modules/async/README.md
```

```

> Check your "prod" presets with `temporal env get prod`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check your "prod" presets with `temporal env get --env prod`:
```

Author: Updated as suggested

```  
address production.f45a2.tmprl.cloud:7233  
namespace production.f45a2  
tls-cert-path /temporal/certs/prod.pem  
tls-key-path /temporal/certs/prod.key
```

To use the environment with a command, pass `--env` followed by the environment
name. For example, to list workflows in the "prod" environment:

```
$ temporal workflow list --env prod
```

Specify an active environment by setting the `TEMPORAL_ENV` environment
variable in your shell. The Temporal CLI uses the "default" environment when a
specific environment was not named.

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/env

### temporal env delete: Delete an environment or environment property

Remove an environment entirely or remove a key-value pair within an
environment:

```
temporal env delete [environment or property]
```

For example:

```
temporal env delete --env prod
temporal env delete --env prod --key tls-cert-path

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think I would split these into two separate examples, one for the whole env and one for a property within an env. Then you don't need the generic `[environment or property]` form.

Author: Agreed. Changing.

> If you don't specify an environment, you'll delete the `default` environment:

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't specify an environment, the deletion affects the `default` environment:
```

```
temporal env delete --key tls-cert-path
```

Read more: https://docs.temporal.io/cli/env#delete

<!--
* maximum-args=1
-->

#### Options

* `--key`, `-k` (string) - The name of the property

### temporal env get: Print environment properties

> Prints the environmental properties for a given environment.

Author: ```suggestion
Prints the environmental properties for a given environment:
```

```
temporal env get --env environment-name
```

Print all properties of the "prod" environment:

```

> temporal env get prod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
temporal env get --env prod
```

Author: fixed

### temporal batch: Manage batch jobs

A batch job executes a command on multiple [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution) at once. 
Use an SQL-like `--query` to select which Workflow Executions to include:

```
temporal batch workflow cancel \
  --query 'ExecutionStatus = "Running" AND WorkflowType="YourWorkflow"' \
  --reason "Testing"
```

The `batch` keyword is optional when using a `--query`. The following command

> is functionally identical to the previous one:

Author: I know where the ticket is. I'll link.

> is functionally identical to the previous one:

Author: Added to all places that can use --query that I know of including the options set for single workflow or batch

Print a single property:

```
temporal env get --env prod --key tls-key-path
```

might produce this result:

```
tls-key-path  /home/my-user/certs/cluster.key
```

> When you do not specify an environment name, you list the `default`

Author: ```suggestion
When you do not specify an environment name, results are pulled from the `default`
```

    --value value
```

If you don't specify an environment (with `--env` or by setting the 

> `TEMPORAL_ENV` variable), this command sets properties in the default 

Author: done.

#### Options

* `--key`, `-k` (string) -
  Property name.
  Required.
* `--value`, `-v` (string) -
  Property value.

>   Required.

Author: I'm committing this. But Required. appears in lots of places. Global search and replace? If you say yes, I'll pull these merged suggestions and then perform the changeout.

### temporal operator cluster health: Check Temporal Service health

View information about the health of a Temporal Service:

```
temporal operator cluster health
```

### temporal operator cluster list: Show Temporal Clusters

Print a list of Temporal Clusters (Services) registered to this
system. Report details include the Cluster's name, ID, address, History Shard

> count, Failover version, and availability:

Author: Global rewrapping applied.

  Remote endpoint.
  Required.
* `--enable-connection` (bool) -
  Set the connection to "enabled".

### temporal operator namespace: Namespace operations

> Manage [Temporal Cluster](/clusters) (Service) [Namespaces](/namespaces):

Author: Yikes. Okay, doing this.

> Manage [Temporal Cluster](/clusters) (Service) [Namespaces](/namespaces):

Author: For future reference:

```
\]\((?!#option)
```

Also:

Account Id, Activity, Activity Definition, Activity Execution, Activity Heartbeat, Activity Id, Activity Task, Activity Task Execution, Activity Type, Advanced Visibility, Archival, Asynchronous Activity Completion, Audit Logging, Child Workflow, Child Workflow Execution, Claim Mapper, Codec Server, Continue-As-New, Core SDK, Custom Data Converter, Data Converter, Default Data Converter, Durable Execution, Event History, Failure Converter, Heartbeat, Heartbeat Timeout, Heartbeating, History Service, History Shard, ID, IDs, List Filter, List Filters, Local Activities, Local Activity, Matching Service, Multi-Cluster Replication, Multi-Region Namespace, Namespace, Namespace Id, Namespaces, Parent Close Policy, Payload Codec, Payload Converter, Pre-Release, Public Preview, Queries, Query, Retention Period, Retry Policy, Run Id, Schedule, Schedule-To-Close Timeout, Schedule-To-Start Timeout, Search Attribute, Search Attributes, Side Effect, Signal, Signal-With-Start, Signals, Standard Visibility, Start-To-Close Timeout, State Transition, Sticky Execution, Task, Task Queue, Task Queues, Task Routing, Task Token, Task Tokens, Temporal, Temporal CLI, Temporal Client, Temporal Cloud, Temporal Platform, Temporal SDK, Temporal SDKs, Temporal Server, Temporal Service, Timer, Timers, Worker, Worker Entity, Worker Process, Worker Program, Worker Service, Workflow, Workflow Definition, Workflow Definitions, Workflow Execution, Workflow Execution Timeout, Workflow Executions, Workflow History Export, Workflow Id, Workflow Id Reuse Policy, Workflow Ids, Workflow Run Timeout, Workflow Task, Workflow Task Execution, Workflow Task Timeout, Workflow Tasks, Workflow Type, Workflows, gRPC,

future Workflow runs:

```
temporal schedule describe \
    --schedule-id YourScheduleId
```

#### Options

Includes options set for [schedule-id](#options-set-for-schedule-id).

### temporal schedule list: Display hosted Schedules

Lists the Schedules hosted by a Namespace:

```
temporal schedule list \
    --namespace YourNamespace
```

#### Options

* `--long`, `-l` (bool) -
  Show detailed information
* `--really-long` (bool) -
  Show extensive information in non-table form.

### temporal schedule toggle: Pause or unpause a Schedule

Pause or unpause a Schedule by passing a flag with your desired state:

```
temporal schedule toggle \
    --schedule-id "YourScheduleId" \
    --pause \
    --reason "YourReason"
```

and

```
temporal schedule toggle
    --schedule-id "YourScheduleId" \
    --unpause \
    --reason "YourReason"
```

The `--reason` text updates the Schedule's `notes` field for operations
communication. It defaults to "(no reason provided)" if omitted. This field is
also visible on the Service Web UI.

#### Options

* `--pause` (bool) -
  Pause the schedule.
* `--reason` (string) -
  Reason for pausing or unpausing a Schedule.

>   Default: "(no reason provided)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Default: "(no reason provided)".
```

are still running. To cancel or terminate these Workflow Executions, use 
`temporal workflow delete` with the `TemporalScheduledById` Search Attribute.
 
#### Options

Includes options set for [schedule-id](#options-set-for-schedule-id).

### temporal schedule describe: Get Schedule configuration and current state

Show a Schedule configuration including information about past, current, 
and future Workflow runs:

```
temporal schedule describe --schedule-id YourScheduleId
```

#### Options

Includes options set for [schedule-id](#options-set-for-schedule-id).

### temporal schedule list: List Schedules

Lists the Schedules hosted by a Namespace:

```
temporal schedule list --namespace YourNamespace
```

#### Options

* `--long`, `-l` (bool) -
  Show detailed information
* `--really-long` (bool) -
  Show extensive information in non-table form.

### temporal schedule toggle: Pause or unpause a Schedule

Pause or unpause a Schedule:

```
temporal schedule toggle \
    --schedule-id "YourScheduleId" \
    --pause \
    --reason "YourReason"
```

and

```
temporal schedule toggle
    --schedule-id "YourScheduleId" \
    --unpause \
    --reason "YourReason"
```

> The reason updates the Schedule's `notes` field to support operations
> communication. It defaults to "(no reason provided)" when omitted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
--reason updates the Schedule's `notes` field to support operations
communication. It defaults to "(no reason provided)" when omitted.
```

Author: Updated. Can't wait until I can do the next pass, which should be much quicker.

Inspect and update Task Queues, the queues that Workers poll for Workflow and
Activity tasks:

```
temporal task-queue [command] [command options]
```

For example:

```
temporal task-queue describe \
    --task-queue "YourTaskQueueName"
```

#### Options

Includes options set for [client](#options-set-for-client).

### temporal task-queue describe: Show active Workers

Display a list of active Workers that have recently polled a Task Queue. The
Temporal Server records each poll request time. A `LastAccessTime` over one
minute may indicate the Worker is at capacity or has shut down. Temporal
Workers are removed if 5 minutes have passed since the last poll request:

```
temporal task-queue describe \
   --task-queue "YourTaskQueueName"
```

Workflow and Activity polling use separate Task Queues:

```
temporal task-queue describe \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --task-queue-type "activity"`
```

#### Options

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task queue name.
  Required.
* `--task-queue-type` (string-enum) -
  Task Queue type.
  Options: workflow, activity.
  Default: workflow.
* `--partitions` (int) -
  Query partitions 1 through `N`.
  Experimental/Temporary feature.

>   Default: 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Default: 1.
```

  Reachability filter.
  `open`: reachable by one or more open workflows.
  `closed`: reachable by one or more closed workflows.
  `existing`: reachable by either.
  New Workflow Executions reachable by a Build ID are always reported.
  Options: open, closed, existing.
  Default: existing.
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string[]) -
  Search only the specified task queue(s).
  Can be passed multiple times.

### temporal task-queue get-build-ids: Fetch Build ID versions

Fetch sets of compatible Build IDs for specified Task Queues and display their
information:

```
temporal task-queue get-build-ids \
    --task-queue "YourTaskQueue"
```

This command is limited to Namespaces that enable Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task queue name.
  Required.
* `--max-sets` (int) -
  Max return count.
  Use 1 for default major version.
  Use 0 for all sets.
  Default: 0.

### temporal task-queue list-partition: List Task Queue partitions

Display a Task Queue's partition list with assigned matching nodes:

```
temporal task-queue list-partition \
    --task-queue "YourTaskQueue"
```

#### Options

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.

>   Required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Required.
```

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids: Manage Build IDs

Add or change a Task Queue's compatible Build IDs for Namespaces using Worker
versioning.

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-compatible: Add compatible Build ID

Add a compatible Build ID to a Task Queue's existing version set. Provide an
existing Build ID and a new Build ID:

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-compatible \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --existing-compatible-build-id YourExistingBuildId \
    --build-id YourNewBuildId
```

The new ID is stored in the set containing the existing ID and becomes the new
default for that set.

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build ID to be added.

>   Required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Required.
```

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.
* `--existing-compatible-build-id` (string) -
  Pre-existing Build ID in this Task Queue.
  Required.
* `--set-as-default` (bool) -
  Set the expanded Build ID set as the Task Queue default.
  Defaults to false.

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-default: Set new default Build ID set

Create a new Task Queue Build ID set, add a Build ID to it, and make it the
overall Task Queue default. The new set will be incompatible with previous
sets and versions.

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-default \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --build-id YourNewBuildId
```

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build ID to be added.

>   Required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Required.
```

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-id-in-set: Set Build ID as set default

Establish an existing Build ID as the default in its Task Queue set. New tasks
compatible with this set will now be dispatched to this ID:

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-id-in-set \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --build-id YourBuildId
```

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build ID to set as default.

>   Required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Required.
```

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-set: Promote Build ID set

Promote a Build ID set to be the default on a Task Queue. Identify the set by
providing a Build ID within it. If the set is already the default, this
command has no effect:

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-set \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --build-id YourBuildId
```

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build ID within the promoted set.

>   Required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Required.
```

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.

### temporal workflow: Start, list, and operate on Workflows

Workflow commands perform operations on Workflow Executions:

```
temporal workflow [command] [options]
```

For example:

```
temporal workflow list
```

#### Options set for client:

* `--address` (string) -
  Temporal Service gRPC endpoint.
  Default: 127.0.0.1:7233.
  Env: TEMPORAL_ADDRESS.
* `--namespace`, `-n` (string) -
  Temporal Service Namespace.
  Default: default.
  Env: TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE.
* `--api-key` (string) -
  API key for request.

>   Env: TEMPORAL_API_KEY

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Env: TEMPORAL_API_KEY.
```

```

Workflow code cannot see or respond to terminations. To perform clean-up work
in your Workflow code, use `temporal workflow cancel` instead.

Visit https://docs.temporal.io/visibility to read more about Search Attributes
and Query creation. See `temporal batch --help` for a quick reference.

#### Options

* `--workflow-id`, `-w` (string) -
  Workflow ID.
  You must set either --workflow-id or --query.
* `--query`, `-q` (string) -
  Content for an SQL-like `QUERY` List Filter.
  You must set either --workflow-id or --query.
* `--run-id`, `-r` (string) -
  Run ID.
  Can only be set with --workflow-id.
  Do not use with --query.
* `--reason` (string) -
  Reason for termination.
  Defaults to message with the current user's name.
* `--yes`, `-y` (bool) -
  Don't prompt to confirm termination.
  Can only be used with --query.

### temporal workflow trace: Workflow Execution live progress

Display the progress of a Workflow Execution and its child workflows with a
real-time trace. This view helps you understand how Workflows are proceeding:

```
temporal workflow trace \
    --workflow-id YourWorkflowId
```

#### Options

* `--fold` (string[]) -

>   Statuses for folding away Child Workflows.

Reviewer 2: I think a verb might make things clearer here:

```suggestion
  Folds away Child Workflows with the specified statuses.
```

  This reduces info fetched and displayed.
  Case-insensitive.
  Ignored if --no-fold supplied.
  Available values: running, completed, failed, canceled, terminated,
  timedout, continueasnew.
  Can be passed multiple times.

>   Each fold reduces the amount of information fetched and displayed.

Reviewer 2: You say this twice (see a few lines above).

Author: Will fix and resolve. Thanks.

Includes options set for [shared-workflow-start](#options-set-for-shared-workflow-start).
Includes options set for [payload-input](#options-set-for-payload-input).

### temporal server: Run Temporal Server

Run a development [Temporal Server](/clusters) on your local system.
View the Web UI for the default configuration at http://localhost:8233:

```
temporal server start-dev
```

Add persistence for Workflow Executions across runs:

```
temporal server start-dev \
    --db-filename path-to-your-local-persistent-store
```

Set the port from the front-end gRPC Service (7233 default):

```
temporal server start-dev \
    --port 7000

> ```

Reviewer 2: I suspect if people want to change one port, they'll want to change all three, so it might be good to show a single command setting all three:

```
temporal server start-dev \
    --port 7234 \
    --ui-port 8234 \
    --metrics-port 57271
```

Author: Great suggestion, seriously!

Author: Question, is --ui-port with port + 1000 redundant?

#### Options

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task queue name.
  Required.
* `--task-queue-type` (string-enum) -
  Task Queue type.
  Options: workflow, activity.
  Default: workflow.
* `--partitions` (int) -
  Query partitions 1 through `N`.
  Experimental/Temporary feature.
  Default: 1

### temporal task-queue get-build-id-reachability: Build ID availability

Shows if a given Build ID can be used for new, existing, or closed workflows
in Namespaces that support Worker versioning:

```
temporal task-queue get-build-id-reachability --build-id "2.0"
```
You can specify the '--build-id' and '--task-queue' flags multiple times.
When '--task-queue' is omitted, checks Build ID reachability against all
task queues.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string[]) -
  One or more Build ID strings.
  Can be passed multiple times.
* `--reachability-type` (string-enum) -
  Reachability filter.
  `open`: reachable by one or more open workflows.
  `closed`: reachable by one or more closed workflows.
  `existing`: reachable by either.
  New Workflow Executions reachable by a Build ID are always reported.
  Options: open, closed, existing.
  Default: existing.
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string[]) -

>   List of Task Queues.
>   Constrains the reachability search.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Search only on the specified task queue(s).
```

Author: 👍

  Can be passed multiple times.

### temporal task-queue get-build-ids: Build ID versions

Fetches sets of compatible Build IDs for specified Task Queues and displays
their information:

```
temporal task-queue get-build-ids \
    --task-queue "YourTaskQueue"
```

Limited to Namespaces that enable Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task queue name.
  Required.
* `--max-sets` (int) -
  Max return count.

>   Use 1 for default [major-version](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_versioning) set.

Reviewer 2: Sadly, Markdown links don't work / aren't stripped properly in flags.

Author: Oof, removing. Making note about that.

  Use 0 for all sets.
  Default: 0.

### temporal task-queue list-partition: List partitions

Display a Task Queue's partition list with assigned matching nodes:

```
temporal task-queue list-partition \
    --task-queue "YourTaskQueue"
```

#### Options

* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids: Manage build IDs

Add or change a Task Queue's compatible build IDs for Namespaces using
Worker versioning.

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-compatible: Add compatible build ID

Adds a compatible Build ID to a Task Queue's existing version set. You 
supply an existing Build ID and a new Build ID:

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-compatible \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue
    --existing-compatible-build-id YourExistingBuildId
    --build-id YourNewBuildId
)
```

The new ID is stored in the set containing the existing ID and becomes the
new default for that set. 

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build Id to be added.
  Required
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.

> * `--existing-compatible-build-id` (string) -
>   Pre-existing Build Id in this Task Queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--existing-compatible-build-id` (string) -
  Pre-existing Build Id in this Task Queue.
  Required.
```

Author: 👍

* `--set-as-default` (bool) -
  Set the expanded Build Id set as the Task Queue default.
  Defaults to false.

### temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-default: Establish new default BuildID set.

Create a new Task Queue Build ID set, add a Build ID to it, and make it the
overall Task Queue default:

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids add-new-default \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --build-id YourNewBuildId
```

The new set is incompatible with all previous sets/versions.

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build Id to be added.
  Required
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.

> ### temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-id-in-set: promote Build ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-id-in-set: Make an existing Build Id the default
```

Establish an existing Build ID as the default in its Task Queue set. 
New tasks compatible with this set will now be dispatched to this ID:

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-id-in-set \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --build-id YourBuildId
```

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build Id to set as default.
  Required
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.

> ### temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-set: Promote Build ID set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-set: Make a Build ID set be the default set
```

Author: Gotcha.

You identify the set by providing a Build ID that exists within the set.
If the set is already the default, this command has no effect:

```
temporal task-queue update-build-ids promote-set \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueue \
    --build-id YourBuildId
```

This command is limited to Namespaces that support Worker versioning.

#### Options

* `--build-id` (string) -
  Build Id within the promoted set.
  Required
* `--task-queue`, `-t` (string) -
  Task Queue name.
  Required.

### temporal workflow: Start, list, and operate on Workflows

[Workflow](/workflows) commands perform operations on [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution):

```
temporal workflow [command] [options]
```

For example:

```
temporal workflow list
```

#### Options set for client:

* `--address` (string) -
  Temporal Service gRPC endpoint.
  Default: 127.0.0.1:7233.
  Env: TEMPORAL_ADDRESS.
* `--namespace`, `-n` (string) -
  Temporal Service Namespace.
  Default: default.
  Env: TEMPORAL_NAMESPACE.
* `--api-key` (string) -
  API key for request.
  Env: TEMPORAL_API_KEY
* `--grpc-meta` (string[]) -
  HTTP headers for requests.
  Format as "KEY=VALUE" pairs.
* `--tls` (bool) -

>   STOPPED HERE WEFWEF

Reviewer 2: ACK; I've made it this far in my review comments. Stopping here as well.

Author: Woo! Making more changes for you!

### temporal task-queue describe: Show active Workers

Display a list of active Workers that have recently polled a Task Queue. The Temporal Server records each poll
request time. A `LastAccessTime` over one minute may indicate the Worker is
at capacity or has shut down. Temporal Workers are removed if 5 minutes

> have passed since the last poll request:

Author: Global rewrapping applied to long descriptions

### temporal workflow cancel: Send cancellation to Workflow Execution

Canceling a running Workflow Execution records a 
`WorkflowExecutionCancelRequested` event in the Event History. The Service
schedules a new Command Task, and the Workflow Execution performs any cleanup
work supported by its implementation.

Use the Workflow ID to cancel an Execution:

```
temporal workflow cancel \
    --workflow-id YourWorkflowId
```

A visibility Query lets you send bulk cancellations to Workflow Executions
matching the results:

```
temporal workflow cancel \
    --query YourQuery
```

Visit https://docs.temporal.io/visibility to read more about Search
Attributes and Query creation.

#### Options

Includes options set for [single workflow or batch](#options-set-single-workflow-or-batch).

### temporal workflow count: Number of Workflow Executions

Show a count of Workflow Executions, regardless of execution
state (running, terminated, etc). Use `--query` to select a subset of Workflow

> Executions:

Author: Global rewrapping applied to long descriptions

  Optional flag to reject Queries based on Workflow state.
  Options: not_open, not_completed_cleanly.

Includes options set for [payload input](#options-set-for-payload-input).
Includes options set for [workflow reference](#options-set-for-workflow-reference).

### temporal workflow reset: Move Workflow Execution history point

Reset a [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution) so it can resume from a point in
its [Event History](/workflows#event-history) without losing its progress up to that point:

```
temporal workflow reset \
    --workflow-id YourWorkflowId
    --event-id YourLastEvent
```

Start from where the Workflow Execution last continued as new:

```
temporal workflow reset \
    --workflow-id YourWorkflowId \
    --type LastContinuedAsNew
```

For batch resets, limit your resets to FirstWorkflowTask, LastWorkflowTask,
or BuildId. Do not use Workflow IDs, run IDs, or event IDs with this
command.

#### Options

* `--workflow-id`, `-w` (string) -
  Workflow ID.
  Required for non-batch reset operations.
* `--run-id`, `-r` (string) -
  Run ID.
* `--event-id`, `-e` (int) -
  Event ID to reset to. 
  Event must occur after `WorkflowTaskStarted`.

>   `WorkflowTaskCompleted`, `WorkflowTaskFailed`, etc are valid.

Author: Fixed in two places.

* `--reason` (string) -
  Reason for reset.
  Required.
* `--reapply-type` (string-enum) -
  Types of events to re-apply after reset point.
  Options: All, Signal, None.
  Default: All.
* `--type`, `-t` (string-enum) -
  The event type for the reset. 
  Options: FirstWorkflowTask, LastWorkflowTask, LastContinuedAsNew, BuildId.
* `--build-id` (string) -
  A Build ID.
  Use only with the BuildId `--type`. 
  Resets the first Workflow task processed by this ID.
  By default, this reset may be in a prior run, earlier than a Continue
  as New point.
* `--query`, `-q` (string) -
  Content for an SQL-like `QUERY` List Filter.
* `--yes`, `-y` (bool) -
  Don't prompt to confirm.
  Only allowed when `--query` is present.

### temporal workflow show: Display Event History

Show a [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution)'s [Event History](/workflows#event-history). 

> When using JSON output (`--output JSON`), you may pass the results to an SDK

Author: Fixed.

### temporal workflow query: Retrieve Workflow Execution state

Send a Query to a Workflow Execution by
Workflow ID to retrieve its state. This synchronous
operation exposes the internal state of a running Workflow Execution, which
constantly changes. You can query both running and completed Workflow

> Executions:

Author: Global rewrapping applied to long descriptions
